# Linux-Shell

Basic commands:  The user can type in basic commands which are simple alphanumeric tokens that specify a command, e.g. ls, cat.   You should access the PATH environmental variable, and then search in the specified directories for the specified command.  Once found, the command should be run in a new process, and the shell should block while waiting for the command to finish (see below for exceptions). 

Command line arguments: Each command can have command line arguments.  You'll need to read in these arguments, and pass them along to the command you're running.  Arguments are any text tokens that follow the command but are separated by white space.

Input/output redirection: The shell will need to understand i/o redirection, as directed by special characters <, >, and |:
<:  The character '<' must be followed by a token that represents a file name. It means that the command before this character does not take input from the stdin of the shell, but instead reads its input from this file.  '<' must follow the name of a command. Note that white space or white space characters between '<' and the text before and after it is optional.  For example, cat < file and cat<file are equivalent.
>: The '>' character does the opposite. cmd > x means that output from the command will be written out to file X instead of being written to stdout.  The token before '>' must be a command, and the token after '>' is a filename.  Again, the same rules regarding white spaces and white space characters apply as above.
|: The '|' (i.e., pipe sign) allows multiple commands to be connected. The output of the command before the pipe sign must be connected to the input of the command after the pipe sign. This requires that there is a valid command both before and after the pipe. There can be multiple pipe signs on the command line. For example, your shell has to be able to process an input such as cat f | sort | wc. With this command, the output of the cat command is redirected to the input of sort, which in turn sends its output to the input of the wc program. The same rules as above applies to white space and white space characters.

Simplifications / clarifications
Only the first command in a line can read in input from a file
Only the last command in a line can output to a file
A single command can have both input and output redirection, e.g. sort < infile > outfile
A single command cannot have two sources of input or two files for output, e.g. cat | sort < file,  cat x > file1 > file2 are not allowed.

Background processes:   The ampersand character '&' indicates that the command (or commands) specified should be executed in the background. The shell immediately displays a prompt to wait for the next line, even though commands on the previous line might not have exited yet. The '&' token may only appear as the last token of a line.

Exiting the shell: the shell exits when the user input the 'exit' command (without quotes of course), or the ctrl-D or EOF character.

White space characters: Any non-alphanumeric characters that are not one of the specialized characters described above is a white-space character.  For example, invisible control characters like ^Q should be treated like blank space.

Error handling: The shell should be robust to unexpected input. If there is unexpected input or errors that are generated by programs, the shell should output a message to standard out prefixed with "ERROR:".  No input should be able to kill your shell or make it hang.
